David fredman thank you so much for
joining me on up
front my pleasure uh David following the
horrific Hamas attack of October 7th
that left 1,400 Israelis dead many of
them civilians Israel has been
relentlessly bombing the Gaza Strip the
bombing in The Siege is entering its
fifth week more than 10,000 people have
been killed including more than 4,000
children Fuel and electricity have been
cut for weeks now and the enclave's
infrastructure is buckling numerous
human rights groups have repeatedly said
that Israel's actions could amount to
war crimes or acts of collective
punishment which of course are illegal
under international law again hamas's
targeting of civilians and The Taking of
Civilian hostages is unjustifiable and a
clear violation of international law but
then aren't Israel's actions too and by
providing weapons Aid and political
support to Israel uh is the United
States
complicit well Mark Israel is not
committing any war crimes at all and you
know under international law Israel has
the right to defend itself I think
everybody agrees I think everybody
agrees that Israel has the right to
eradicate Hamas Hamas has embedded
itself within a civilian population uh I
mean this is a cynical and a horrible
organization I'm sure you recognize that
and uh if you say that Israel can't
defend itself that they can't attack
Hamas then what you're really saying is
that Israel has no right or ability to
exist because if they don't eradicate
DAV let me pause you for a second
because just to be clear that you're
interrupting no no no you're
misrepresenting my my my statement I
didn't say that Israel doesn't have
right to defend itself the question is
does is is Israel committing war crimes
the right to defend oneself is not
unlimited under international law and so
the question is uh outside of just
saying we have the right to defend
ourselves is it a war crime you said the
International Community agrees the
International Community doesn't in fact
agree uh no no no the the no the
International Community agrees that
Israel has the right to attack Kamas
okay period I don't think anybody
disagrees with that I don't think
there's a single nation in theate that's
what I'm
saying that's a STW man no no no one is
arguing that they don't have the right
to respond the question is do they have
is the I'm trying to what I'm saying is
I that's why I want to avoid the straw
man I don't want to take waste your time
debating whether or not Israel has a
right to defend itself we agree that it
has a right to defend itself against
Hamas or to respond to this attack
that's not what's in dispute the
question is are the are the attacks
proportionate are the attacks uh
sufficiently discriminate I.E not
attacking civilians when it's avoidable
are they not attacking targets that are
deemed untargetable by international law
these are the questions just to give you
one example and I love your response to
this the UN called Israel's bombing of
the jabalia refugee camp quote a Brazen
violation of international law and a war
crime so clearly the International
Community isn't in entire agreement with
you
here yeah look Mark you know I don't
really care what the UN says I mean the
UN has not been uh fair about about this
issue for the last 50 years um here here
is the reality under international law
Israel has a right to attack Hamas under
international law when you attack an
enemy when you target an enemy to the
extent that there is collateral damage
against civilians it's not against Mark
you're interrupting me no I'm ask a
clarifying question what law what law
you said what
law I said under inter under the
international laws of
war what international I'm asking
because I'm appealing to your expertise
what international rules of War say that
you can attack Hamas in the way that
they had the Israeli state has which
one everyone every single law of War say
I need you I need you to name one sir
sir that's not an honest answer which
one just saying international law does
it make it one the international law is
not a magic book which international law
there there there is there is a body of
international law that deals with
collateral damage Israel is not
targeting a single civilian they're
targeting Hamas wherever they identify
Hamas they attack Hamas if Hamas is
embedded with children Israel will do
everything it can to avoid those
casualties I've been in a war room I've
been in the War Room when Israel has
attacked Hamas back in 2019 okay I saw
the pains that they take to avoid
civilian casualties Israel has no
interest they have no upside in
attacking children it's the worst thing
that could happen to them in this battle
because it then results in international
handcuffs being placed under battle it's
not what Israel is okay so to the extent
that they were casualties of War yes
there are casualties of war in every
single War there were casualties right
now going on in Ukraine and Russia I
don't hear anybody screaming and yelling
about the the civilian casualties a lot
more children K Ukraine and Russia okay
so so a couple it is true it is true it
is true nobody nobody's rioting on
college campuses about Ukraine or Russia
right now let's let's be honest okay so
just for clarifying purposes numerous
members of the International Community
including the UN have absolutely uh
spoken about civil civilian casualties
uh in Ukraine I agree with you that
they're not marching on college campuses
in the same way I I I would concede that
point but to say that the International
Community said nothing about Russia's
war cribes is absolutely unfactual but
you said something else that I think is
is also interesting you said that
there's collateral damage in all war and
that a body of international laws which
you still haven't named any um say that
collateral damage is permissible within
War I agree that collateral damage is
permissible within War again that's not
in dispute what's in dispute is whether
whether civilians can be deemed
sufficient uh collateral damage or
whether civilians can be uh within the
realm of of the target if it's avoidable
targeting a refugee camp jabal refugee
camp is not an example of targeting
Hamas and there's just a few casualties
targeting a refugee camp where there are
children targeting hospitals and mosques
and churches are all direct violations
of international law despite the fact
that you keep saying that it isn't and
and we can move on because I don't I
again I there are lots of things I want
let's not move on no let's not sure
let's not let's not move on let's let's
no let's not move on let's stay right
there tell me tell me which hospital
tell me which hospital that Israel has
targeted tell me which one you said
Israel targets hospitals the only
hospital that got targeted so far in
this war was targeted by Islamic Jihad
okay don't tell me about and and by the
way that a question I'm happy to answer
Happ to answer question it's been proven
it's been proven with certainty it's
been proven with certainty that the
headquarters of Hamas is under the alifa
hospital in
Gaza City now you know what happened a
couple of days
ago are you GNA let me finish I can't
allow you I cannot allow you to name to
say 15 things that are unfactual and not
be challenged on them I'm happy to let
you talk but I I'm going to ask clarify
question you going to tell me what's
factual
Mark SP I spent I spent five years of my
life studying this living it when was
the last time when was the last time you
were in Gaza Mark when was the last time
you were in Gaza uh 18 months
ago when was last time you when was the
last time you were in
Gaza um uh a few a few years ago okay so
you said asifa hospital has been proving
Hamas headquarters what independent uh
reference what source what investigation
has proven that who has proven that it's
an alifa hospital since it's been a
proven fact who proved
it so now we're going to get into this
basic like Hollis C denying idea that
that evidence that Israel has shown is
not valid I mean is that what you're
doing do you deny that people
raped everybody that challenges you is
not doing Holocaust denial you said that
it's a Hamas headquarter I simply asked
you I simply asked you for evidence of
it I said who and you immediately
equated it to Holocaust denial Israel
has presented evidence ask ask the CIA
ask ask ask anybody who studies C sir
you don't TR you don't trust the
government you don't trust the American
government you don't trust the Israel
government who should we trust Hamas you
want to trust Hamas go ahead trust Kamas
the people the people that destroy that
destroy D here's the point here's David
here's the point under article 8 of the
Rome statute and under article 33 of the
1949 Geneva Convention international law
forbids the targeting of civilians do
you disagree with
that I don't disagree with that at all
okay would you agree that targeting a
refugee camp that has children in it and
adults who are non Hamas members who are
not actors in the military would would
would would itute targeting a
civilian I completely disagree with that
completely disagree if if Israel is if
Israel is targeting Hamas in a refugee
camp and it's and it's pinpointing its
attacks on Hamas and there is collateral
damage there's collateral damage that's
War that's called war w r that's what it
is so so here's the challenge
David Israel argues that Hamas is
everywhere in Gaza that they're under
every hospital that they're in every
University that they're in every refugee
came you agree with that right we can
agree to
that no Israel does not think they're
everywhere Israel thinks that they are
where they are and and there are those
are in many but not all civilian
locations so the challenge
is by that logic virtually every
civilian
location is vulnerable and viewed as a
legitimate Target and so what happens is
thousands of innocent people die again
when you bomb a refugee camp there's no
reason to believe that it's the only way
to get at a Hamas Target when a hospital
is bombed there's no reason to believe
that's the only way to do this and if
you know that the quote unquote
collateral damage you call it is
thousands of
civilians then yes it seems like an
improper thing but again it's not just
me saying this the UN the International
Red Cross all of these bodies including
outside of the UN who you said you don't
respect they also agree that these are
war crimes so why does the entire
International Community believe that
these are war crimes and not
you so because I I think I have an
unbiased View and I think there's a lot
of anti-Semitism in the world okay
there's a lot of anti-israel behavior in
the world but let me ask you a question
mark Israel gets attacked the worst
attack since the Holocaust by a bunch of
Barbarians okay we all agree they're
barbarians they go run back across the
border they take 240 hostages and they
start embedding themselves with
civilians that's it they won Hamas wins
that's it according to your theory they
win because every one of these civilian
you know locations is off limits Kamas
wins it's a great you know that's a
great template for the rest of the world
that's going to result in the
destruction of America and Europe and
all the gulf Nations because it's it's a
great way for terrorists to defeat the
peace loving people of the world okay
great Theory you nailed it except you
realize that everything you just said
every every point you just disproved I
never said that's again a straw man what
I'm saying is that what I'm what I'm
what I am saying rather than what you
just put in my mouth which wasn't true
is that it's not a binary uh it's not a
binary choice we don't have to choose
between letting Hamas do whatever they
want and bombing innocent children we
can be strategic we can we can be
thoughtful and we can follow
international law which says that you
can't blow up mosques and you can't blow
up uh uh uh cultural sites you can't
blow up churches right this is
international law there are numerous
people numerous organizations and
numerous laws and treaties that
reinforce this belief and it's for good
reason and I'm not saying it because
it's in Gaza I say the same thing in
Israel you're you're not you're not
addressing you're not addressing the
circumstances which are present here in
abundance that terrorists embed
themselves in mosques in hospitals in
schools there have been rocket launchers
in mosques rocket launchers in schools I
mean you know you're you're you're
you're focusing on a hypothetical set of
of principles of international law that
says Don't bomb hospitals don't bomb
schools don't bomb mosks I agree we
shouldn't bomb mosks we shouldn't bomb
schools we shouldn't bomb churches
unless unless there are terrorists in
there that are trying to kill you in
which case the rules change and then
Israel on top of that will do everything
it can to warn people people you've seen
all the warnings you you see today The
Times of Israel there was a guy on the
phone with Israel for 15 hours trying to
negotiate and find ways to move
civilians out of Harm's Way Israel does
everything it can to move civilians out
of Harm's Way I mean they're doing the
best they can David Freedman thank you
so much for joining me on up
front thanks Mark appreciate it very
much